All come back in this video we're looking at the update command the update command lets us change data
that is already in our database for this video.
We're going to be using the items table as opposed to the customers table.
First let's look at what data is already in our table.
The table is called items.
I'm sure you can just get the data out of your table using the knowledge you've already got.
Remember the command you want to use is select and I want you to select all of the data from that table
.
I'm sure you were able to get that select store for select everything from items and run with the semi-colon
And then you compress the function five key if you want to run the query without pressing the play button
.
Someone pressed that and then you get the data out.
We've got a name we've got ID and we've got price and the price prices a new data type called Gnumeric
which is just a data type that lets us have decimal points in our numbers.
The 10 is the maximum number of digits.
This one has four digits.
This one has five digits and the two is a number of digits after the decimal point.
So in this case all these are prices so they have 2 digits after the decimal point.
You can change that when you create your database at your table sorry and we're going to get to that
later.
So this is the data that we've got and we want to change the ink to be $4 instead of 350.
So we can do that with the update command.
So we're going to say update something set something way something and I'm going to explain what this
is.
You already know what way does.
And it's used for filtering this here should be the table name that you want to update and this should
be the column name that you want to update and the new value that you want to set for that column.
So let's start with this one here.
I'm going to put items because that's what we want to update we want to update the items table.
And we went to St price equal for dollars.
Finally we wanted to filter so that we're only updating the price for ink and you know there's two ways
you could do that.
Well there's actually three which you could do that you could filter by name.
You could filter by ID where you could filter by price.
So for this mini challenge try to do this query filtering by ID so make sure that you're only changing
the ink.
So you've got that the only thing you have to do is say where ID equals three and that we get this item
ink and sets the price of that to $4 that's breastplate and undertows as we do to turn successfully
one row effect.
So now let's go back and select staff from items and now our ink is $4.
Once again update items sent.
Price equals $5 where price equals $4.
What do you think is going to happen now.
Well the first thing you have to realize is the filtering which browes are going to get affected by
this statement.
That's an important thing to take into account and it's no longer the ink only because the Panish also
$4.
So now both items are going to increase in price.
So we're going to set the price of those two items to be $5 to this breast plate and this thing bugs
out quite often which is a bit annoying.
And you can cheat and change anything but sometimes it doesn't like to work very well.
That's fine.
Select start from items known as now are pen and ink both $5.
OK so what happens if we say update items sent price equals ten.
And we omit the where clause.
What do you think is going to happen when we do this if we don't have a WHERE clause which columns get
updated.
And this is a key thing to remember if you don't have a filter all of your columns get affected.
So this would override the prices on all of our items and they're not going to run this query because
it's a bit of a hassle to have to rebuild the thing.
But if you run this query you'll lose the prices of your items and that's it.
Now we have such a small dataset in an important data dataset it's not a big deal but there's another
command called Delete.
And if you forget the way when you delete come on we're going to look at that very soon and then you
lose all your data.
So be careful.
Remember the way I command the WHERE clause is important so you can decide which columns get affected
by a statement without said.
Remember that warning.
Now see you in the next video.
We're going to look into that warning and see what happens.
See you there.